# **Things-To-Do-With-Video-Games-2**

Why make a game where you embody a character whose defining characteristic is weakness (actually weakness, not like a Superman-Kryptonite kind of weakness).

Are all video games meant to be fun? Are all *games* meant to be fun? What else can they do? Are there other forms of expression (visual art, literature, cinema, music) that we consider strictly for entertainment/fun?

Creating a character who begins from a place of weakness can do many different things in game. It can set up creative restraints that force the player to exercise skills like critical thinking, deduction, or logical analysis. It can create empathy for people in marginalized social positions. It can encourage those consdiered less than, such as the disabled or neurodivergent, to pursue their dreams and aspirations even in the face of adversity, obstacles, and hardship. It can create joy through its very existance - by being a represenation of a group that never sees itself in any kind of medida. It can show the truth of the world, especially to those in positions of privledge who may not encounter these narratives any other way. I can think of countless novels and movies where a weakness in a character actually turned out to be a strength given the right circumstances. Blindness by Jose Saramago is one such example. In a world where everyone goes blind, the blind inherit the earth simply by their ability to navigate their weakness. Another example is the movie The Silnce directed by John R. Leonetti, where the family of a deaf girl gains an advantage escaping horrible monsters that hunt by sound. Because they are able to communicate using ASL, they survive situations where others would perish. 

I don't think all video games are meant to be fun, and the full emotional spectrum of potential for this platform has yet to be reached. I think that video games have a unique positon within interactive art to create situations of encounter between privledged and marginalized individuals. I think that they can show many of the invisible forces at play in our lives - bureaucracy, surveilance, pollution, etc. I think that conceptual art has blurred a lot of the lines of what is art, and things that had been just for entertainment became a new source to be mined for creative expression. 
